wedding starts in hello everyone welcome
to the June 13th 2018 Journal Club we
have consulted
talking about Trump like conflict-free
replicated JSON data types thank you
alright I'll just share the screen I
think this is sharing not the correct
one
let me just one sec alright that's great
can you see the paper and the notes yep
yeah all right cool sucks yeah looks
good
yeah just let me know if you have any
questions just interrupt me I might not
see your hands then again just feel free
to interrupt me so thanks a lot for the
time let's jump into the paper so the
paper is about conflict free replicated
jason-- jason-- data type by Martin and
Alastair so really interesting paper in
my opinion about conflict free data
there are structures which are in my
opinion a super interesting way to sort
of solve a lot of distributed problems
when it comes to collaborative
applications so the basic idea of this
paper is that they present an algorithm
and they sort of a formal semantics for
a JSON data structure that resolves the
concurrent of modifications
automatically locally in each and every
at replica so there's no need for any
type of consensus the replicas can just
modify modify the their own local states
optimistically following the algorithm
and editing all the metadata that is
needed the proper way and they are sure
that when they serve a spread the their
modification
the network everyone will have
eventually the same state so that the
state will converge locally and this is
super cool so eventually we get a
peer-to-peer network or the same
distributed network in which different
replicas will converge towards the same
state no user input is lost whatsoever
we don't need any guarantees from the
network
besides that eventually all the peers
will receive the same events of the same
Jason modifications and all operations
are actually performed locally without
any need for consensus and central
identity to resolve conflicts and
whatsoever so this is basically what
we're going to be talking today for for
this paper and I really like to see when
I when I jump into papers I really like
to see it on a problem soul problem
solution type of approach so I would say
that the problem that we are going to be
talking today and that the authors
explain that really well with a lot of
examples is that we've got a Jason Jason
data structure which is replicated so
many different replicas and they can be
the different peers with the replicas
can get offline and modify the Jason
data structure at will and then what
what happens when these replicas come
back where these peers come back online
and share the modifications they need
offline with the others is that there
might be some concurrent modifications
which conflicts right so that's usually
what happens and then we get a lot of a
consensus algorithms or some other
centralized peers to serve them
or centralized system to make sure that
the conflicts are resolved but these CR
DT approach is be different from that
the solution presented in this paper is
exactly to add a bunch of metadata and
to to the data structure itself and also
to have
a really well-known algorithm that will
make sure that different replicas can
race can apply modifications in the day
in adjacent data structure remote
locally and from remote peers without
any conflict and I think that's really
cool it's really interesting results and
the really interesting thing about this
paper as well is that we're talking
about Jason which is quite expressive
already so we can basically build a lot
of applications for top of Jason these
are structures and that's exactly what
one of the most interesting one of the
most interesting results from these very
structures so so we're gonna go really
quickly through introductions so again
what what RC R DT is just some
applications some examples of how what
kind of abstractions we have what kind
of API do we have to locally handle
these Jason structure it's really
straightforward what everyone would
expect from a JSON API and then we're
gonna jump into the implementation
details and see how things work more in
detail and yeah that's pretty much it so
basically I've gone through a lot really
quickly about the introduction we
already know more or less the context
that Jason is kept in different replicas
changes are done locally and spread
across the network eventually and
eventually all the peers will get all
the operations done on the Jason blog so
we don't require many guarantees from
the network itself which is really good
and opens up broad range of applications
for us developers so if we can think
about peer-to-peer networks we can think
about situations in which the network is
really really spotty there there's a
bunch of different different
applications for for this kind of Jason
CRD team
that's exactly what what I stopped
through during the introduction and when
really interesting point in my opinion
is that there's the Jason CRT also aims
at or as a side side effect it does you
know developing collaborative
peer-to-peer or decentralized
applications really easy from a
developer standpoint because now we got
into a situation in which all the sort
of I wouldn't call consensus but all
what could have been a messy sort of a
situation full of conflicts when merging
different operations from different
replicas it's completely abstracted from
us so that makes it really easy and
really clean for for developers
obviously that all comes with the cost
that we're gonna see that a bit forward
so it's a really like sort of an
introduction introductory sort of some
ideas about what Jason is or I think we
can skip this part the really
interesting part about about the fact
that we were talking about Jason C
eternities is that Jason has embedded
maps and lists and has also registers
there are different types which can be
embedded and that's exactly what this
paper sort of a the novelty of this
paper is exactly how to create an
algorithm and data structure which will
be able to handle properly sort of
embedded CR duties because CRTs have
been around for quite a bit it's it's
been quite a hot topic nowadays but it's
been already used in many other systems
and that's already also talked through
the paper but the big thing about this
this paper is exactly now we can
actually embed and make really complex
and expressive there structures which
are conflict free and that's exactly
what we aim at so yeah I think we can
skip the Jason part more than these so
there's a this is about replication and
conflict resolution there's
interesting point in my opinion while
consensus has been a really hot topic as
well as we all know and really cool
thing about CR duties is that there's no
need for consensus right so sort of a
there's conflict resolution by default
and we don't need to reach any consensus
reach out to other peers to understand
whether we can make these operations or
not so and this is really powerful and
really interesting sort of a sort of
different approach and mindsets there's
something that I'm asked quite a bit
when talking about this with my friends
and colleagues so I think this is a
really interesting sort of an idea to
retain so yeah as we've already talked
about it shortly it has its own sort of
a state or each each sphere has its own
replica and we are basically aiming at
three main principles when sava when
we're when the authors try to come up
with this algorithm and Ciardi Jason
they were really pushing forward this
idea of strong eventual consistency
without conflict so that every peer in
the network if yet if if the peers get
all the events which have been tossed if
it or spread on the network then they
will eventually converge to the same
states and also another really important
point is that there's no no in either
input should be lost due to concurrent
modifications that's time at some of the
CRT is I can think of like sort of a
lasts right-wing type of CR duties in
which every time if two concurrent
rights are done on a register the
algorithm will discard the the first
kind of right so that's that's not
what's aimed at here if if there's any
problem with them if there's any of the
situation that most likely the CRT will
keep both results we're gonna see that a
bit forward so
yeah I've been good with we've gone
through all the contributions I've got
many notes but you can look at it
afterwards
again the idea that these been the CRD
teas in which have been around for a
while but this is the first kind of work
published work to the author's knowledge
that really embeds a lot of cear teas
creating a really interesting there is
structure for applications and whatnot
so I think we can also already jump to
so - maybe the concurrent editing
examples so there's other approaches
which I've already talked about but also
not that interesting against ear disease
have been around for a while here that
really do see things start coming in so
the really cool thing about this paper
is also they really show in diagrams how
the different sort of a concurrent
modifications result when there's a
merging of the different modifications
what what is the final result the final
states in each peer so and that there's
actually some really interesting and
edge cases which we as developers and
someone who are interested anyone who's
interested in this data structure really
needs to be aware of because they have
to be handled
anyways so yeah let's let's go through
some of the examples of how the CR DT
would look like when two replicas do
concurrent offline modifications and
then eventually share the modification
with each other so basically a really
sort of a narrow subset of what would be
how Jason C R DT work in really in a
different bigger network if we will so
there are around for examples five
examples let's go through them really
fast and the idea is that if you have
two replicas the left replica P and the
right replica Q and then each of them
start with the same States do different
modifications and then eventually
perform metal communication and then we
can see how the algorithm resolves the
conflicts so the first idea is already
quite interesting again we have two okay
so let's let's see first so we've got a
map with a key key Val value key and a
as a register the replicas P changes the
key to be keys value to be
replicas to his case value to see and
then they perform metal communication
this is a register but because we the
one who lose any input the conflict
resolution is basically keep both of the
registers so we've got a multivalued
register at the end of the conflict
merging then again these might not make
much sense on an application level but
the idea is not to resolve the conflicts
in a way that it makes sense an
application level and we're going to be
saving examples in which this is even
more these these sort of insight is even
more interesting because what the CRT
Jason does is exactly making sure that
both replicas end up with the same
result without having to solve any
conflict right it doesn't mean that on
an application level it makes sense
that's gonna be others responsibilities
developers most likely but as far as
both replicas have the same state then
it's easy to in a really deterministic
way to pick one of the registers or do
whatever so the other example is also
quite interesting so our left so we've
got a map colors a blue with its value
and that the rightmost replicas will
actually first of all clear the whole
map colors and then add the color green
whereas the leftmost replicas will
basically just add the Reds key value
what happens is that because the
rightmost replica has cleared the muck
and the left one didn't even touch the
key blue blue will be deleted altogether
so we get into a situation in which
callers will have red and green I think
this is more or less sort of a sort of a
expectable in a way so there's not much
of a really weird results coming out of
here the
happens exactly because the right-most
replica has actually cleaners the whole
map all right so for the next example
it's also quite straightforward it
basically shows an example in each in
which two replicas concurrently creates
an ordered list under the same map keys
so we start with the empty map empty
document the leftmost creates a list or
or creates a key or assigns lists to the
key grocery and the rightmost do the
same but they add different different
ordered items to the list what we get at
the end is that the list will be ordered
at the same the same way so it doesn't
really matter whether for example eggs
and ham would be third and fourth item
what matters is that both of them
converge and they both of them get the
same sort of a ordered lists and this is
going to be achieved through lamp or
clocks whatnot we're gonna check how
that works actually a bit more in detail
and if it in a few minutes so this is
exactly the same pretty much the same
idea it just keeps the whole ordered
list it shows here that we can use these
for for example text documents as an
application-level
and in my opinion these are probably the
two most interesting examples of what we
can expect from these Jason a CRT
algorithm so the first example is that
we assign values of different types in
the same map key so these mckee a is a
sank map whereas this this under the the
rightmost replica it the
key a gets a least assigned so what's
gonna happen is that it's impossible to
meaningful me merge a map with an array
and then again because we don't want to
lose any user input
we're gonna keep both of them tag them
as okay we'd get this map type map has
this value tab list has this list and
then again the application level has to
resolve these conflicts so there's
always these sort of edge cases in which
there's some work that the upper layers
for application will have to perform but
there's really no other way besides a
human to really make make the decision
of whether these makes more sense or the
other so that's another of the of the
insights of this example and the last
one is probably one of the most
interesting by my opinion yeah at least
the the map is unordered and the list is
ordered that's right
and so I imagine that you could just
have some arbitrary ordering scheme for
when you merge conflicts on the map for
the list is there a way that it gets
ordered in this scheme or is it left
here the application layer to define an
ordering that that's a very good
question
it's so the idea is that each of the the
peers have a an ID each of the replicas
have an ID which is sort of a LAN port
and they keep a LAN port clock sort of a
LAN port ID in which is possible to make
sure that there's a casual order of
what's happening in in the network right
so whereas whenever there's some items
added to a list in one replica and and
items added to a list in another replica
whenever there's this sort of merging of
both they're gonna be merged according
to the sort of of their IDs their level
Lamport walks in which will randomly in
a way but deterministically ordered the
list at the end because of the lamp at
once right even if they've been sort of
supposedly at that at the same time
they're gonna have the leper clubs to
sort of resolve that and and and just
deterministically figure out which one
comes first
does this make sense or yeah okay thank
you yeah
but yeah really good question and that's
that's I think one of the cool things
about about bees is that also the you
know terrible final order ringing lists
is it's deterministic both replicas have
to set to have the same order alright so
the last example is also really
interesting in a way so it's basically
the same as the example we've seen with
the colors in which in which the
leftmost replica clears the whole item
of a to-do list so we've got a map to do
which has a bunch of which have a bunch
of items to do items and we get the left
replica clearing up the whole the whole
to-do list and then we we got the right
replica actually setting the buy milk
item done to true so when we merge a
replica the same thing has happened with
the blue and whatnot we've seen before
what's gonna happen is that because the
left one cleared the item the right one
only changed it done we're gonna end up
with a to do list we do an item in which
doesn't even have title so this makes no
sense whatsoever or an application-level
but then again it's it's not
responsibility of the Jason CR DT to
make sure that this makes sense on the
application level and this has to be
handled by either the developers or also
they suggest in the paper and that's
actually future work suggested to create
sort of a sort of a JSON schema in which
sits on top of the CR DT Jason so that
these examples will be avoided so then
there's such a thing as a to the list
without done or title then just remove
everything so that would be probably
what makes this the most sense so yeah
that's basically it these are the sort
of a weirdest kind of merging examples
everything else would be super sort of a
working is expected in a way image Jason
so I think this is really really cool -
really really nice from the authors to
really show visually what's actually
happening under the hood and what's like
the results really helps to give a bit
of context so this is actually exactly
what we've gone through the only new
thing in this section is the API so
again the API is this is just sort of an
example sort of a pseudo code almost of
what would look like a primitive Jason a
bunch of adjacency rdt a primitives or
API and the most interesting part for us
probably is these ID x0 so basically
what we have is we initialize doc we set
the the value of a of the shopping as
chopped shopping list as list and then
we get the zero sort of an item it's not
quite an item it actually indicates
instead of a special cursor that
indicates the heads of the list and
that's basically like the only you can
add what could be that we understand in
this API everything is quite straight
forward and and really easy to get
through what's what's happening here
again we insert we we get the this they
sort of a zero cursor this head cursor
and then we insert after it the the X
and when you get eggs in the first in
the first sort of an position of the
lists and then we insert after again of
the head that
and then we get the cheese being
asserted before so this is basically it
but it shows like how can we handle the
distance AR DT but but that that's
pretty much what would be expected
anyways
so we've gone through of the fruits and
all of these we canna I guess at this
point I hope there's sort of a good
understanding of what C R DT the Jason
celerity is supposed to be used to what
are the applications how does it resolve
the conflicts or at least how does the
final state looks like when some
educators example happen in the conflict
resolution so now we can start actually
getting into more of a sort of an
implementation details in which we've
got really what kind of metadata
do we need to keep in the JSON CR DT and
what kind of operations and what can I
offer readers when we insert when we
clear some of the elements in the JSON
have to be in place in order for us to
reach all the properties that we want
with these GCR DT so first thing is how
to evaluate the expressions they show so
the expressions are these we're going to
go through them really quickly there's a
couple of interesting insights in them
but then I think the most important part
is how to what our operations and how to
apply the operations and that's I think
where we can learn the most but yeah one
interesting insight as well or sort of a
background idea is that every sort of an
operation or every mutation on locally
done on a or performed on adjacency rdt
actually first of all generates an
operation so this is an operation based
see our duty so before applying the
modification locally the algorithm
generates this this operation which is
pretty much uniquely identifiable not
only locally but in the whole network
and and then can be gossiped or shared
with the other peers so that they can
also apply that operation and then be
sure everything fits in properly and one
of them one of the items of that
operation is cursor and that cursor it's
pretty much sort of a list of keys and
IDs that identify a position in the
Jason's here the local position you see
a sincerity but we're gonna see how this
egg actually all comes together a bit a
bit later on when we're going to be
talking about the appliqud applying the
operations so this is start a lot of
sort of implementation details this is a
I don't know if you are familiar with
these sort of operational operational
semantics notation it's really well
explained in this link actually by the
authors and basically it's sort of a
formal representation on how to evaluate
the expression so by expressions I mean
how to define a variable or how to how
to sort of a fetch one index from a list
and so forth so forth so I think the
most interesting part is these ibx 4 so
this idx 4 is a case in which we want to
traverse a list in which some of the
elements in the list have been deleted
so this is actually introductory to one
of the most interesting parts of this
Jason C ality which is how to delete
elements once they were added to the
Jason C or the T the thing is that we
cannot just remove the whole element so
for instance if we have a list somewhere
in the CRT in which has the element 1
three if for some reason we locally want
to remove the three the the second
element three we cannot just go there
and remove everything because other
other replicas can actually be might be
performing some operations on that
element of this of the list and then
we're losing sort of a data that is
really needed for converging the whole
thing so the idea is that each and every
element in in in the in the tree the
Jason tree keeps a set which is called a
present set and that set has the sort of
an all the operation IDs that have been
relying on that on that element so
basically all the operations that are
that have been using there have used
that element for one reason or another
whether is for traversing or creating
creating it or whatever they they are
represented in these elements metadata
so basically clearing the state is just
removing the operation IDs from that
list of that elements and eventually
when it's completely empty then we can
consider at a application level that
that element is deleted this might be a
bit still confusing but we're gonna go
through this through it again later on
the idea is that I just want to give a
sort of a quick example of how to serve
an sort of read these cement formal
semantics here so the idea is that these
this IDX for-expression show us that
whenever we have
whenever we have a context in which the
next element its exists and whenever
it's so they'll the element exists and
its presence set the one that shows us
whether there are operations still
relying on it or not is empty then we
can pass the cursor forward on the list
because we are traversing the lists
without without decreasing the index so
meaning that we are again we are
traversing a list just a bit of context
we are traversing a list and we are
going forward in English whenever we
reach these one elements we check its
presence set if the present set is empty
it means that the belief that the
element has been actually deleted and
should not be considered when traversing
the list so we just go forward without
decreasing the index so that's basically
what this whole thing whole expression
means and it's just an example on how to
read read this we're going to see a bit
forward how to actually clear the whole
context and the whole elements a bit a
bit more bit more in detail or probably
in a more sort of a simplified way
outside so and this is exactly what I'm
talking about so we always have to keep
all the nodes in the tree no matter
whether they have been deleted or not
and this is actually a bit of a problem
when it comes to efficiency of space
because eventually we're keeping locally
a lot of we might be keeping a lot of
elements that have been actually deleted
they're not going to be shown to the
application layer for example but we
have to keep them because with the
present set empty because we're not sure
whether all the other replicas have as
well deleted because if other replicas
are actually changing these one elements
that we are seeing as deleted and then
we get an operation which change it and
we don't have it there then the whole
convergence
sort of an idea is not gonna be it's not
gonna work anymore so this has a lot of
problems one of them is that we have to
keep a lot of unnecessary data when all
the replicas in the network have already
sort of a deleted is one element there's
really no needs to keep it there we can
actually just remove it there but it's
how do we get to the situation in which
we know that all the other peers believe
with the elements how do we do this
garbage collection how do we snapshots
that's another of the sort of operations
or helpers that can can help us to do
the garbage collection so that's like
one of the biggest sort of a open open
sort of points for the see oddities or
open questions there's quite a bit of
discussion Pedro has been doing a really
good job at explaining and putting down
the problem and you know checking the
discussions I think if you're really
interested in this point is I think it's
really cool to go ahead and check this
link and contribute as well so all right
so basically we through this section I
just wanted to make sure that we can
understand how to read this it's not
that easy it took me a while there's
also the link where we can later on
check better how to to really if you're
really interested in it and then
introduce the idea of how to clear the
state how to delete elements and and
what does sort of a these dumb stone
thumps on sort of nodes which are the
ones which are deleted but not deleted
from the data structure mean but we're
going to be already saying that again
later in a few minutes so the next
session section is when everything
starts to get a bit more interesting or
at least more practical and and then I
have also a diagram in which kind of
shows the whole algorithm so now we're
getting into a situation in which I
believe we can start getting through the
what kind of metadata do we really need
and then what's the algorithm
as well that are gonna is gonna make
sure that the convergence happens
without conflict so again I think I just
I already mentioned this this is an
operation based Jason CR DT what this
means is that even before the mutation
is done locally an operation is
generated and the operation sort of
encapsulates all the necessary
information about what's the mutation
that the replica wants to do locally and
then also its unique uniquely identifies
these operation within like throughout
the whole network so that the replicas
can sort of change these operations so
basically adjacency R DT can be seen as
you know can be constructed by a set of
operations right if we have the
operations then we can go through and
and build up the whole Jason tree based
on that and and that's what we're going
to be talking about how to generate
these operations and then we're going to
see how to apply the operations because
that's like sort of a the real algorithm
is exactly how to apply those operations
locally so the idea is that again we're
going to keep oh actually this is a
really really interesting point okay
so exactly the mutation is represented
as an operation which is unique to the
network and before
before applying the operation locally
you create we create the operation and
then apply properly and then wield it to
the whole net okay so we've got Lamport
time stamps and the Lamport time cents
are really important to sort of ensure
that we have sort of a that we preserve
the casualty so the order of the
operations will end up being sort of an
arbitrary but they are deterministic and
what this means is that the lamport's
clocks make sure that as we've discussed
before with evans question that when we
get an order lists in two replicas and
when we merge them locally we are sure
that although the order of the two sets
will be random so it might be that the
replicas a replica me is first or second
but at least we're sure that it's going
to be the same in every replicas of the
network and that's exactly what we want
so
so that's that this is the point of the
using the lamport's tank seems pretty
much everywhere so we've got or in the
operation we've got the dependencies and
we're gonna see that a bit later on
to to make sure that operations which
are concurrent the order is going to be
arbitrary but deterministic so that
everyone agrees on it so how does
actually a structure look like what's
gonna metadata do we need so that we can
safely and guarantee the convergence
when applying these locally and in other
peers so an operation has an ID which is
a Lampert ID
it has a dependency set and this
dependency set is basically and this is
really important for operation sort of a
level a dependency set is a set of
Lampert IDs of all the operations that
these one operation depends on and what
does depending on really means means
that all the operations that have been
apply it before so let's say yeah all
the operations that have been applied
before this operation has been created
and if they are concurrent to it they
will have to be part of the dependency
set so we are sure that every time a
peer or replica will apply an operation
all the dependency said have to be met
otherwise there's a way to ensure
guarantee the cook the curser we've
already seen so it's basically shows the
path to a certain nodes or to a certain
node in the tree and then the mutation
is basically just telling exactly what
what can a mutation whether it's an
insert whether it's an delete or a sign
of this one node which is pointed by the
cursor so this is basically it and an
adjacent CR DT can we build up out of a
set of these operations so this is
really cool because we can just throw
these operations around in the network
and apply those locally and we've got
our CR DT algorithm so I think one of
the most important parts is exactly the
dependency the casual dependencies of
the operation so it's it's basically
again I've already explained it so
exactly the the har dependencies that an
operation needs to be sure that already
been applied so that it can be applied
safely that says that's basically
you
yeah and and main goal of these is that
as it said but here is that the secret
the sequence of operations generated at
one particular replica will be applied
in the same order at every replica
because one operation can be applied
only when its dependencies have been
applied otherwise it's gonna be buffered
and and the pier will keep waiting for
operations until to come until those are
met so basically I think we can sort of
a here instead of going through this
against the formal semantics of how to
apply the operations I'm gonna actually
show the one diagram
I've got can you can you see this I
changed the screen can you see it now
yep okay cool
all right so at this point what so to
give a bit of context because this might
help and I jump to be to ahead so to
give you a bit of context what's
happening now is that a replica locally
wants to change the Jason CR DT state
locally right so this can happen or okay
an operation is created whether locally
when replica wants to change the
distance ERD T or through receiving from
a remote pier right so what does the
algorithm now has to make sure that
these operations are applied in a way
that we get the converges we need so
this is exactly sort of a diagram
showing how to go about applying the
operations in the local state the
replica so this is all
metadata and handling metadata in in the
different sort of in the different data
structures of of the of the elements so
the idea is that I think I actually
didn't mention this before so we're
having to this first sorry so the idea
is that we've got operations we've got
the notes in the in the tree and then
we've got also the whole tree so all of
these three like several levels have
different types of metadata right so the
whole tree keeps a the whole Jason CR DT
keeps a list with all the operation IDs
that have been applied to it the
operation itself keeps its ID and then
it keeps a set of dependencies so the
set of all the operation IDs which need
to be applied so that these operation
can be applied safely and the elements
which are part of the so sort of at the
nodes in the tree as we've seen before
keep a set which is called present set
in which shows or keeps a list of also
operation IDs of all the operations that
have in one way or another interacted
with that element right so for instance
every time a node is traversed when
applying in operation that operation ID
is added to the presence set of that of
that element so this is basically like
the three sort of types of metadata that
the Sierra T Jason keeps and now what
we're going to see with the algorithm is
how that those different levels of
metadata are actually server manipulated
when applying a local operate an
operation locally okay so let's say that
we've got a local operation so the
replica wants to change one element
first of all it builds up the Opera
as we've seen with all the sort of a
with all the elements that we've seen
just now and then we apply it locally
and what does that mean is that we're
gonna descend the tree as the way the
cursor shows so the course that again is
a set of sort of a notes note keys and
then we just traverse the whole tree
based on the cursor until get to the to
the node in the tree which will be
modified mutated and while you'll
traversing we are adding the operation
ID to the presence ID of all the nodes
as we've seen before once we get to the
end of on once we reached the final
nodes pointed by the cursor we can apply
the mutation so apply let's say and by
applying here I mean not destructive
because it distracted is gonna be
different
we're gonna talk a bit about before so
let's say that we are just assigning a
new value or key value to a map so then
we apply the mutation and then if it's a
non-local operation then we just buffer
we already applied locally we buffered
we referred operation and then is sent
to the sort of network so that the
others can apply the same operation
locally the when a remote operation is
received locally the there's still a
couple of checks that have to be done
before so first of all we have to see
check based on the applied operations
list which is part of the Jason C R DT
if this operation has been already
applied or not because then again we
have no guarantees from the network we
might get gets like two three times the
same the same operation so we have to be
sure that we don't we don't apply more
than once the same operation so if the
operation hasn't been applied we're
gonna see based on the dependency set of
the operation and the operations which
has have been applied to the whole Jason
C R DT if all the dependencies
dependencies are actually satisfied then
the
exactly why we really need those
dependencies on the operation topo and
one of the reasons the other one is for
clear the state but we see that forward
so if the operation haven't been
satisfied yet
then buffer it until it is we wait until
we receive more operations and then we
recheck if we can already apply their
lot and then the process is exactly the
same so once we want to apply it locally
with just descendant tree based on the
cursor modify the presence lists in the
different nodes that we Traverse and and
then we don't send it to the network or
we might even send depending on the
protocol if we want to just sort of a
gossip anyways and that's basically the
idea to assign when the mutation is sort
of a assigning rather than deleting the
interesting part for deleting is that it
goes through exactly the same through
exactly the same algorithm whether it's
local operation or remote operation but
when it comes to the send the tree what
we do is instead of having the not only
we adds the operation ID to them or
sorry instead of adding the operation ID
to the present set of the nodes that are
traversed and after after it's deleted
what's going to happen is that it's
gonna clear the present set so it's
basically what's gonna happen I've got
it here
yes cancer here so basically again we
want to delete a list all right so we
traverse the beliefs with this checking
the cursor when we get to the list we
Traverse again all the elements in the
list and then we remove from the present
sets in each and every of the elements
that are supposed to be deleted we
remove the dependencies of the operation
so what this means is that we're instead
of just removing the element itself
because then if other other nodes are
sort of making modifications in the set
in the in this element and then we
receive those operations it's going to
be round the whole converges but what is
make sure is that we can get into a
situation in which if all the operations
that have been somewhat dependent on
these on these nodes are removed from
dependency cells then we can consider
the elements as deleted and that's
exactly when we get to the empty set
that's exactly the situation in which we
can we get the Thompsons
so the nodes in which are taking space
but they're actually not valuable
anymore because they actually delete
them but we have to keep there because
we're not sure that all the other
replicas know that this node has been
cleared they might be concurrently and
offline sort of modifying it so this is
sort of a really interesting in my
opinion so obviously we the trade-off
here is sort of a metadata and space for
all this conflict resolution and this is
sort of one of the most important parts
of I believe algorithm to really
understand it properly is the mechanics
of how to set up an how to handle the
different types of data metadata in the
difference server layers right in a way
or in the
and objects and and yeah that's that's
pretty much it like there's there's not
much more to it it's it's a fairly
simple algorithm it's just again all
about making sure that all the metadata
is kept and then handled properly when
when we're applying operations
yeah and and and that's basically it
again just for just just for gonna re
gonna go through these again this is
really important my opinion because it's
not really explicitly explicitly said or
written in the paper but for me that I
was that have been sort of implementing
this one go library of these of these
algorithm and data structure this is
exactly what sort of a really opened up
the whole the whole sort of data model
and whatnot this it's all about
operations being properly generated and
then it's all about keeping all the
metadata at a document level which are
the list of operations that have been
applied locally operation level the
unique ID and the set of its own
dependencies so that this operation can
be applied only when all the other
operations that we applied and at the
world level with non level which keeps
this presence and to check whether the
node exists or not that's basically it
and and with all these sort of an
algorithm here and with all these
metadata we are sure that we get we get
all the strong eventual convergence II
without losing any modifications and and
and we get all these guarantees from the
data structure that we get all all
replicas into the same state without any
conflict so I will probably skip this
because I've been already talking for
quite a bit I'll probably skip these
more formal convergence definitions I
think we're gonna we went through them
anyways in one way or another
basically the in there is an interesting
part here at the end if you're really
into the maths of it the authors show
that really well how to actually the
different the different sort of steps in
the algorithm make sure that we are
always converging converging really
interesting reading let's not go through
that because we've at least got I
believe that this went through it a bit
more in any formal way so so yeah
I mean that's basically it I guess I
hope it was not that confusing because
it's for me it still sort of heart and
really in a really succinct way try to
explain how the whole thing happens but
that's it like the paper really shows
how to build up these Jason CR duties
which you can embed all the different
types Maps lists and also have registers
really expressing very structure and
make sure that concurrent operations
concurrent mutations can be locally
merge optimistically and being sure that
it all converges no need for consensus
this is super powerful in my opinion I
hope a lot of the you know further work
or sort of hot topics on garbage
collection and stuff like that can be
solved soon so that we can or in a way
improved so that we can we can
definitely get these into you know our
application then we have already quite
quite interesting libraries such as Auto
merge and applications also peer Pat
using using CR entities in a really
really cool way so really promising in
my opinion yeah yeah that's awesome
thank you so much I feel like I learned
a ton one question that I had yeah is it
seems like the additional metadata is
going to like double or triple the size
of the database since you're
implementing this have you seen that
like that sort of growth or how would
you assess make a scaling yes it's it's
really hard to estimate the scale but I
would say that if there's a lot of peers
if there's a lot of replicas and if
there's a lot of peers in the network
making modifications deleting mostly a
lot of adding and deleting nodes I think
it's gonna grow really fast and and also
the problem here is also when if we're
talking about the operation based CR
duties there are other types Delta based
and whatnot but the operation phase CR
duties they also have the problem that
whenever
someone joins the someone needs an upir
joins the network we have two sort of a
sheep old or send all the operations set
that have been basically the local state
that has to be shared with these new
Peter is basically the whole list of
operations right so imagine these there
is in the beginning of the json CR BT
there was these operations there is
these sort of elements which were
emitted and none of the replicas have
that element anymore right
every time a new Peter comes we still
have to send that so not only on the
storage side but also bandwidth I mean
network bandwidth there's there's a lot
of uh sort of um yeah it thinks that
there's a lot of waste of resources
still when it comes to operation based
without snapshot the snapshot thing
without garbage collection I don't
really have the numbers but I've heard
from some of the meetings in the ipfs
then and the capabilities of some of the
sort of benchmarks that have been that
has been done and yeah it's it can it
can grow really fast
okay go really fast so I'd say that
results yeah that it's a problem to
solve exactly yeah yeah and it seems
like it would also depend a lot on like
the average size of an edit if
everyone's making really really small
and it's like you know text document
it's gonna be worse than something like
this for your editing objects in the
list yeah exactly
when of one of the really cool examples
of not examples but one way the the
authors actually suggests to create
let's say Google Docs right based on
Jason CRT is that each and every sort of
when we are building up a string each
and every char character is actually an
element in a at least right so then
people can go at the character level and
change remove or change and that that
all is going to be properly the conflict
will be properly resolved so you can
imagine like writing a thesis
collaboratively with a lot of people
changing and removing characters and
those characters many of them will never
have to be you know part of the chase
they're structured anymore so it can
build up pretty fast
yeah yeah I was also going to ask
because I'm not like embedded in this
we're working at things girl
related this could you give me a like a
overall sense of the landscape
I know there are opportunity between the
different types of Serie T's I know
there are operational Delta based one I
know there's state based series yeah
are there other kinds that I'm missing
and what am i yes
I realize like the prompt for a
three-hour lecture yeah
maybe yes but I happen but I have to say
that those are the ones that I've been
also the most sort of reading and
learning about so and I think that the
Delta C our duties are by themselves
really really interesting as well and as
I've seen like it's been super super hot
topic and there's a lot of things
happening there's a lot of new stuff
coming in and and and I haven't even
made being able to I believe to catch up
with every single new article which is
coming every day on the fields see art
it is only you're not even on this Jason
this er duties but I would say that
those are the three main types of CR
duties which still are being used but
but then again probably I will have to
look weak research and I'll come back to
you later on if that's fine yeah I'm a
pretty basic question I guess I'm
wondering like have you run tests at all
to understand like obviously this is
dependent on the network size and the
amount of my changes have happened but
like understand how quickly all the
offline nodes do reach like eventual
consistency yeah yeah that's a really
good question and I think I haven't run
any tests yet then again there were some
benchmarks I can also dig that up on the
stuff that has been tested with Auto
merge and also with the peer crack war
but I guess it all depend on how big the
network is and also what kind of
modifications there are and I think that
that that's quite dependent on that I
would expect other expect but you know I
think that's yeah one of the most
interesting things to sort of start out
having those benchmarks and tests of
different types of approaches to the
algorithm and different types of CR
duties because well if this if this has
to if these technology really wants to
be part of a lot of sort of applications
a lot of applications field on top of it
there has to be still quite a lot of
improvements to do and for those we only
you know we can only improve if there
are the metrics and but it's kind of
interesting as well that sorry one more
thing I'm gonna feel that Sierra disease
have been around for so long right or
for like relatively long when when we
think about all the decentralized and
distributed or most of the centralized
not so much is tributed but all these
consensus ideas and how to really build
start building interesting the
centralized applications they're not
that old but they've been it been used
for quite a bit so I mean it's it's
still a really right sort of research
sort of field and I think that I think
it's really really really worthy to
really put the effort and yeah the
resources to kind of put it forward
because the applications can be really
interesting out saying yeah alright stop
recording oh cool